- Assgnment 1 http://nmdprojects.net/teaching_resources/new_media_definitions.html
  - : /Post “How is your capstone new media?”
  - Pick at least one of the readings and post a response to questions a, b, and c to your own Slack channe.Chchallenge my project using that) / http://nmdprojects.net/teaching_resources/new_media_definitions.html
  - Redings:
    - Vin Crosbie, "What Is New Media?"http://nmdprojects.net/teaching_resources/crosbie_what_is_new_media.pdf
      - defi Crosbie: That individualized messages can simultaneously be delivered to an infinite number of people.
And that each of the people involved shares reciprocal control over that content.
    - Lev Manovich, "What Is New Media?"http://nmdprojects.net/teaching_resources/manovich_what_is_new_media.pdf
      - good to read all of it, but the key section begins at "Principles of New Media".
      - Defi Manovich:All new media objects, whether they are created from scratch on computers or converted from analog media sources, are composed of digital code; they are numerical representations.as a fractal has the same structure on different scales, a new media object has the same modular structurethroughout. Media elements represented as collections of discrete samples 
    - Henry Jenkins, "Eight Traits of the New Media Landscape"http://nmdprojects.net/teaching_resources/jenkins_eight_traits_of_new_media.pdf
      - defi Jenkisi:
        - 1 Innovative
        - 2 Convergent.Every major idea, image, sound, story, brand, and relationship will play itself out
across the broadest possible range of media channels. 
        - 3 Everyday. . Our family rooms have become home entertainment centic. Media technologies are fully integrate  everydae sociial interactions. In somed i been a wedge between family members; shut themselves off from the people around them
        - 4 Appropriative.  sample and repurpose media images.
        - 5 Networked a technologies are interconnected so that messages flow o
        - 6 Global  -- Media content flows fluidly across national borders;
        - 7 Generatinol             erated, young people adopted cultural styles and values radically different a
        - 8 Unequal -represents a new site of privilege and inequality. Participating may be elective for those who have the resources needed to belong in the first place but no such option can be exercised by those who are being left behind.
    - Wikipedia entry on "New Media"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_media
      - Defi wiki.peadi:New media are forms of media that are native to computers, computational and relying on computers for re-distribution. 
  - Questions:
    - a How does your capstone measure up according to the definition proposed by the author/s? evaluate your project objectively 
    - b. How might you alter your project to fit that definition better?
    - c. Do you agree or disagree with that definition, and why?Remember
  - Post draft,
    - Henry Jenkins's article "Eight Traits of the New Media Landscape" provides eight traits that its author observes in the prominent currently emerging new media. I do _not_ consider this article to be a definition, _per se_, of the currently emerging new media, much less as one of new media in general, and it has some issues (discussed below) when taken as such. However, I will here evaluate my project in consideration of this set of traits when assumed to be defining traits of new media in general.
    - The first of these defining traits is _innovation_. I agree that the technologies that make up new media are indeed innovative. Whether individual new media works are themselves technologically innovative varies depending on the work, I think. As a communication medium, the information technology environment aspect of my project proposal is arguably merely an extension and refinement of existing communication media. However, because those existing media are themselves innovative, even so my project is a work within new media, even if it is not itself a new medium.
    - The second defining trait is _convergence_. My proposal is highly convergent, being a broadly scoped project to innovate across a wide range of aspects of society, industry, and technology. Even regarding only the information technology environment, it is intended to inherit the capabilities of existing computers, which are used for text, sound, image, video, and interactive media, among others.
    - The third defining trait is _everyday_ presence. As a project to develop a unified system providing all the knowledge resources needed for running a society, if it is successfully completed and used to its envisioned potential, it would serve as the framework for people's everyday lives. When only available in partial form, those portions of it can be used in everyday settings as well (e.g. large chunks of my classwork and other data I rely on and use on an everyday basis (personal projects, music library, email, etc.) are stored and managed using software I developed in the course of developing this project).
    - The fourth trait is _appropriation_. My proposed project ideally will be highly appropriative, because so much work has already been done. It would likely be hugely wasteful and impractical to attempt to build everything from scratch, rather than to leverage existing systems and merely work to fill gaps and integrate the various existing technologies well. That said, reliance on proprietary or externally managed technologies should be eliminated as soon as practical, with all elements of the project and its dependencies being fully libre, because proprietary, non-maintainable, and trade-dependent systems are brittle and are a huge threat to the ability of human society to maintain its standards of living over time.
    - The fifth trait is _networkedness_. As a design goal for my project, networking should be provided when available, but never mandatory. Systems that depend entirely on networking are, echoing my discussion of the fourth point, brittle. A cloud computing–backed virtual digital assistant, for instance, is thoroughly useless in the event of networking being unavailable. Once constructed, the best tools would be fully usable in a vacuum.
    - The sixth trait is being _global_. My proposed project is intended to be able to be geographically dispersed, although individual commumnities would only be able to collaborate on physical projects by being physically colocated, for obvious reasons.
    - The seventh trait is _generational_. Whether an age gap will affect my project is hard to predict. If it does, it should only be by the choice of individuals, rather than by inaccessibility or prejudice: if people who are a different age than the majority involved in the project, those people should be provided any necessary accommodations to the fullest extent possible (medical care for the elderly, education for the young, and so on). Any project I'm involved in should not engage in discrimination based on age, although for the time being probably only adults would be practical for this project to serve due to lawyers (e.g. I think Google doesn't allow kids to use it, so this presumably shouldn't either).
    - The eighth trait is _inequality_. This will likely affect the project initially, because a community being developed by it would presumably be unable to fully support individuals until it was quite far along, meaning that people involved in the project would need to be able to provide for themselves and (for physical aspects) provide transportation to it, restricting practical access to it to those who are wealthy or otherwise supported. Working to reduce undesired inequality as much as possible should be a design goal of the project, while accommodating diversity and freedom.
    - My opinion of this definition of new media, when taken as such, is that it is rather poor. However, it is not presented as such in the article: rather, it is presented as a list of traits of "the new media landscape" or "the contemporary media landscape", indicating that it is a list of (not necessarily defining) things that can be observed about the specific set of media emerging at the time of the article's composition. I will assess its quality as a definition, but please remember that I don't believe these criticisms are valid when regarding the article as what it actually presents itself to be. First, it seems somewhat focused on _currently_ new media (computer technology, hacktivism, etc.), while new media can in my view encompass any means of communicating (a medium) that is gathering influence at a given time (newness), at least when the term is assessed as the sum of its constituent components. Granted, the definition represents what new media is often currently taken to mean, practically speaking, so it is only in pedantic and prescriptive usage that it is flawed in that regard. Second, many of the described defining traits are not required in the slightest for a medium to be new. Everyday presence is particularly egregious in how little dependency _being a new medium_ has on it: many new media are presumably developed and are never widely considered or gain everyday currency due to not having been very useful — it seems inconceivable that every new medium developed immediately has everyday presence, or that it is not "new" until it has such presence. Again, this is an issue that only arises when considering the article as a definition of new media in general rather than as observations of commonalities of the prominent new media when it was written. I suspect that more logical issues would appear given further scrutiny of the traits as a general definition media, but I'm sleepy. Good night!
